Dear Customer,

The enclosed Support Level Supplement (SLS) UOD369B contains a new console    
keyboard driver set.  A new scoterm is also provided for those systems running
SCO Open Desktop.  This SLS applies to all current SCO UNIX System V/386 
Release 3.2 Operating System Version 4 based products (Version 4.0, Version 
4.0 with Maintenance Supplement 4.1 and/or 4.2, and Version 4.2) and SCO Open 
Desktop Release 2.0 and 3.0.

Since each release of our software has a different console keyboard driver
it is important to install this console keyboard driver again after the
installation of any software which may modify the console driver.

When in doubt, install SLS UOD369B last.

If a Maintenance Supplement is used to update your software, remove this 
Console Keyboard SLS before the update and install it again after the update.

If you do an in-place update of your software from one release of SCO UNIX
Operating System or SCO Open Desktop to another release, remove this Console 
Keyboard SLS before the update and install it again after the update.

DO NOT attempt to install this SLS on top of the SCO Japanese Environment 
Version 1.0.0g due to a console driver conflict.

DO NOT attempt to install the SCO Japanese Environment Version 1.0.0g on 
top of this SLS due to a console driver conflict.

See Section II for instructions on using custom(ADM) to install this SLS.

This SLS contains several modifications to the console keyboard drivers which
eliminate problems with "stuck" <Ctrl> keys, "stuck" <Alt> keys, key response
not consistent with the current state of the keyboard, and hung keyboards.

Other modifications were made to the console keyboard drivers in order for 
the mapkey function to operate correctly in conjunction with the 
/usr/lib/keyboard/keys file.

A feature enhancement is the ability to set the keyboard in either SCO UNIX
Version 2.0 mode for backwards compatibility or SCO UNIX Version 4.0 mode.
Version 2.0 mode has the extended keys mapped in groups according to keypad 
function.  Version 4.0 mode has each key mapped separately.  The default mode 
is SCO UNIX Version 4.0 mode.  This mode can be changed by setting the value 
of the variable v2keymap in the file /etc/conf/pack.d/kernel/space.c file.

              v2keymap = 0;  sets the keyboard in Version 4.0 mode (default).
              v2keymap = 1;  sets the keyboard in Version 2.0 mode.

After setting the keyboard mode, the kernel must be relinked in order for the 
change to take effect.

This can be accomplished by taking the following steps:

					1

1.  If the system is running in multiuser mode, log in as root on the console.
    After warning the users that the system will be down for some time, enter 
    the command:

        shutdown  -y -g0 

    The system will then execute a controlled shutdown operation which will 
    display the following message when the shutdown process has completed:

        **   Safe to Power Off   **
                   -or-
        ** Press Any Key to Reboot **

2.  Reboot the system.

3.  When the system reboots, you will see the message:

        Type CONTROL-d to proceed with normal startup,
        (or give root password for System Maintenance):

    Enter the root password and press <Enter>.
    Wait until the "#" prompt appears.

4.  At the "#" prompt, change directories to /etc/conf/cf.d by issuing 
    the command:

              cd /etc/conf/cf.d    <Enter>.

5.  At the "#" prompt, enter the command:

              ./link_unix   <Enter>.

    Answer "y" when asked if you want to boot off this kernel.

    Answer "y" when asked if you want to rebuild the kernel environment.

6.  At the "#" prompt, enter the command:

             reboot   <Enter>   in order to reboot the computer. 

The keyboard mode has now been changed.

Section II - Using custom(ADM) to install SLS UOD369B

1.  If the system is running in multiuser mode, log in as root on the console.
    After warning the users that the system will be down for some time,
    enter the command:

        shutdown  -y -g0 

    The system will then execute a controlled shutdown operation which
    will display the following message when the shutdown process has
    completed:

        **   Safe to Power Off   **
                   -or-
        ** Press Any Key to Reboot **

					2

2.  Reboot the system.

3.  When the system reboots, you will see the message:

        Type CONTROL-d to proceed with normal startup,
        (or give root password for System Maintenance):

    Enter the root password and press <Enter>.
    Wait until the "#" prompt appears.

4.  Next, insert the custom volume diskette labeled "Console Keyboard SLS
    Custom Install Disk" in the floppy drive and enter the command:

        /etc/custom

    The custom menu will appear.

5.  To select the following, highlight each one with the cursor keys 
    and press <Enter>:

        Install -> A New Product -> Entire Product

   - Position the cursor so that "Install" is highlighted and 
     press <Enter>.

   - Make sure that the words "A New Product" are highlighted in the window 
     found in the lower right hand corner of the screen; press <Enter>.

   - Make sure the words "Entire Product" are highlighted in the "Choose an
     option" section of the screen; press <Enter>.

   - You will be prompted to "Insert distribution Volume 1 and press <Enter>".
     The diskette is already in the drive, therefore press <Enter>.

   - You will see the following messages:

       Installing custom data files
       Executing Product Prep Script
   
 The message "Saving files about to be Replaced" will flash on the screen.
     You will be prompted to "Insert the requested Volume and press <Enter>".
     The diskette is already in the drive, therefore press <Enter>.

   - You will see the following message:

       Extracting Files

   - When asked if you wish to relink the kernel, reply "Y" in order to insure
     that the modifications from SLS UOD369B are included in the kernel.

     Answer "y" when asked if you want to boot off this kernel.

     Answer "y" when asked if you want to rebuild the kernel environment.

   - You will then be prompted to "Press any key to continue"; press <Enter>.

					3

   - At the main custom menu, move the highlighted entry to "Quit" and press
     <Enter>.  Press <Enter> again on the highlighted "yes".  
     
   - Reboot the computer.

   - SLS UOD369B is now successfully installed.

NOTE: If you have a 3rd party product which utilizes the console keyboard
      driver, such as SunRiver Terminals or Maxspeed Terminals, you will be 
      required to obtain new drivers from the vendor in order to have your 
      3rd party product work correctly with this SLS.
   
      For more information, consult your 3rd party vendor.

If you have and further questions, please contact your supplier.

TECHNICAL SUPPORT DEPARTMENT

Ref: uod369-03CB
